DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Deployment Guide - LockerRoom

This guide provides comprehensive instructions for deploying the LockerRoom platform to various hosting platforms and environments.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Pre-Deployment Checklist](#pre-deployment-checklist)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Database Setup](#database-setup)
- [Deployment Platforms](#deployment-platforms)
  - [Vercel](#vercel-recommended)
  - [Railway](#railway)
  - [Render](#render)
  - [DigitalOcean App Platform](#digitalocean-app-platform)
  - [Self-Hosted (VPS)](#self-hosted-vps)
- [Post-Deployment](#post-deployment)
- [Monitoring & Maintenance](#monitoring--maintenance)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

Before deploying, ensure you have:

- ✅ **Environment Variables** configured
- ✅ **Database** provisioned and migrations run
- ✅ **Cloudinary Account** set up with API credentials
- ✅ **Stripe Account** configured (if using XEN Watch payments)
- ✅ **Redis** configured (Upstash recommended) - Highly recommended for production
- ✅ **Sentry** account configured - Recommended for error monitoring
- ✅ **Domain Name** registered (optional)
- ✅ **SSL Certificate** configured (automated on most platforms)
- ✅ **Backup Strategy** for database

## Environment Variables

### Required Variables

```env
# Server Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=5174
CLIENT_ORIGIN=https://your-domain.com

# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:5432/database

# JWT Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your-very-secure-random-string-minimum-32-characters

# Cloudinary (Required for media uploads)
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloud-name
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=your-api-key
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your-api-secret

# Session Storage (Required for authentication)
SESSION_SECRET=your-session-secret-key
```

### Optional Variables (Highly Recommended for Production)

```env
# Redis Caching (Highly Recommended - improves performance significantly)
# Reduces database load by 70-90% and improves response times by 85-95%
REDIS_URL=https://your-redis-url.upstash.io
REDIS_TOKEN=your-redis-token

# Sentry Error Monitoring (Recommended for production)
# Provides real-time error tracking and performance monitoring
SENTRY_DSN=https://your-sentry-dsn@sentry.io/project-id

# Stripe (for XEN Watch payments and subscriptions)
# Required only if using payment features
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_your_stripe_secret_key
STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_your_stripe_publishable_key
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_webhook_secret
```

### Generating Secure Secrets

```bash
# Generate JWT Secret
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"

# Generate Session Secret
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

## Redis Setup (Highly Recommended for Production)

Redis caching significantly improves performance by reducing database load and enabling distributed rate limiting.

### Option 1: Upstash Redis (Recommended - Serverless)

1. **Create Account** at [upstash.com](https://upstash.com)
2. **Create Redis Database**
3. **Copy Connection Details**:
   - `REDIS_URL` - Your Redis REST URL
   - `REDIS_TOKEN` - Your Redis REST token
4. **Add to Environment Variables** in your deployment platform

**Benefits**:
- Serverless (pay-per-use)
- Global distribution
- Automatic scaling
- No server management

### Option 2: Platform-Managed Redis

**Railway**: Add Redis service from marketplace
**Render**: Add Redis service from dashboard
**DigitalOcean**: Create Managed Redis database

### Option 3: Skip Redis (Not Recommended)

The system will work without Redis but with:
- ❌ No caching (higher database load and costs)
- ❌ In-memory rate limiting only (doesn't work across multiple servers)
- ❌ Slower response times

## Database Setup

### Option 1: Neon (Recommended for Serverless)

1. **Create Account** at [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. **Create Project** and database
3. **Copy Connection String** to `DATABASE_URL`
4. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

### Option 2: Supabase

1. **Create Project** at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. **Get Connection String** from Settings → Database
3. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="postgresql://..." npm run db:push
   ```

### Option 3: Railway PostgreSQL

1. **Create PostgreSQL Service** in Railway dashboard
2. **Copy Connection String** from Variables tab
3. **Optionally add Redis**: Create Redis service from Railway marketplace

### Option 4: Managed PostgreSQL

For platforms like **AWS RDS**, **Google Cloud SQL**, or **Azure Database**:

1. **Provision Database** instance
2. **Configure Network Security** (allow your app's IP)
3. **Create Database**:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE lockerroom;
   ```
4. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="postgresql://..." npm run db:push
   ```

## Deployment Platforms

### Vercel (Recommended)

Vercel provides excellent support for full-stack applications with automatic deployments.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Install Vercel CLI**:
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Login to Vercel**:
   ```bash
   vercel login
   ```

3. **Create `vercel.json`** configuration:
   ```json
   {
     "version": 2,
     "builds": [
       {
         "src": "server/index.ts",
         "use": "@vercel/node"
       },
       {
         "src": "package.json",
         "use": "@vercel/static-build",
         "config": {
           "distDir": "dist/public"
         }
       }
     ],
     "routes": [
       {
         "src": "/api/(.*)",
         "dest": "server/index.ts"
       },
       {
         "src": "/(.*)",
         "dest": "dist/public/$1"
       }
     ],
     "env": {
       "NODE_ENV": "production"
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Deploy**:
   ```bash
   vercel --prod
   ```

5. **Set Environment Variables** in Vercel Dashboard:
   - Go to Project → Settings → Environment Variables
   - Add all required variables

6. **Configure Build Settings**:
   ```json
   {
     "buildCommand": "npm run build",
     "outputDirectory": "dist/public",
     "installCommand": "npm install"
   }
   ```

#### GitHub Integration

1. **Connect Repository** to Vercel
2. **Configure Auto-Deployments** on push to main branch
3. **Preview Deployments** for pull requests

### Railway

Railway provides seamless deployment with integrated PostgreSQL.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create Account** at [railway.app](https://railway.app)

2. **New Project** → Deploy from GitHub

3. **Add PostgreSQL Service**:
   - Click "+ New" → Database → PostgreSQL
   - Railway automatically creates `DATABASE_URL` variable

4. **Configure App Service**:
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Start Command**: `npm start`
   - **Healthcheck Path**: `/api/health`

5. **Set Environment Variables**:
   ```env
   NODE_ENV=production
   PORT=5174
   DATABASE_URL=${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}
   JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret
   CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloud-name
   CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=your-api-key
   CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your-api-secret
   ```

6. **Deploy**: Railway automatically deploys on git push

### Render

Render provides straightforward deployment with managed services.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create Account** at [render.com](https://render.com)

2. **New Web Service** → Connect GitHub repository

3. **Configure Service**:
   - **Runtime**: Node
   - **Build Command**: `npm install && npm run build`
   - **Start Command**: `npm start`
   - **Environment**: Node 18+

4. **Add PostgreSQL Database**:
   - New → PostgreSQL
   - Render automatically provides `DATABASE_URL`

5. **Set Environment Variables**:
   Add all required variables in the Environment tab

6. **Deploy**: Render automatically deploys on git push

### DigitalOcean App Platform

DigitalOcean App Platform offers straightforward deployment.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create App** in DigitalOcean dashboard

2. **Connect GitHub Repository**

3. **Configure Build**:
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Run Command**: `npm start`
   - **HTTP Port**: 5174

4. **Add Database**:
   - Components → Add Database → PostgreSQL
   - DigitalOcean auto-provisions and links

5. **Set Environment Variables**: Add all required variables

6. **Deploy**: App Platform handles deployments automatically

### Self-Hosted (VPS)

For complete control, deploy on a VPS (DigitalOcean Droplet, AWS EC2, etc.).

#### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 20.04+ or similar Linux distribution
- Node.js 18+ installed
- PostgreSQL 13+ installed
- Nginx for reverse proxy (recommended)
- PM2 for process management (recommended)

#### Setup Steps

1. **Server Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Update system
   sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
   
   # Install Node.js
   curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_18.x | sudo -E bash -
   sudo apt install -y nodejs
   
   # Install PostgreSQL
   sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib
   
   # Install Nginx
   sudo apt install -y nginx
   
   # Install PM2
   sudo npm install -g pm2
   ```

2. **Database Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Create PostgreSQL user and database
   sudo -u postgres psql
   ```
   ```sql
   CREATE USER lockerroom WITH PASSWORD 'secure-password';
   CREATE DATABASE lockerroom OWNER lockerroom;
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE lockerroom TO lockerroom;
   \q
   ```

3. **Deploy Application**:
   ```bash
   # Clone repository
   git clone https://github.com/Truthtechno/LockerRoom.git
   cd LockerRoom
   
   # Install dependencies
   npm install --production
   
   # Build application
   npm run build
   
   # Set environment variables
   nano .env  # Add all required variables
   ```

4. **Configure PM2**:
   ```bash
   # Start application with PM2
   pm2 start dist/index.js --name lockerroom
   
   # Save PM2 configuration
   pm2 save
   pm2 startup  # Follow instructions for systemd setup
   ```

5. **Configure Nginx**:
   ```nginx
   # /etc/nginx/sites-available/lockerroom
   server {
       listen 80;
       server_name your-domain.com;
       
       location / {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:5174;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
       }
   }
   ```

   ```bash
   # Enable site
   sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/lockerroom /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
   sudo nginx -t
   sudo systemctl reload nginx
   ```

6. **Setup SSL with Let's Encrypt**:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
   ```

7. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

8. **Seed Database** (optional):
   ```bash
   npm run seed
   ```

## Post-Deployment

### 1. Verify Deployment

- ✅ **Health Check**: Visit `/api/health` endpoint (if implemented)
- ✅ **Database Connection**: Verify database connectivity
- ✅ **Authentication**: Test login functionality with demo accounts
- ✅ **Media Uploads**: Test Cloudinary integration (upload image/video)
- ✅ **API Endpoints**: Test critical API routes
- ✅ **Redis Caching**: Verify Redis connection (if configured)
- ✅ **Sentry Integration**: Verify error tracking (if configured)
- ✅ **Notifications**: Test notification system
- ✅ **XEN Watch**: Test submission flow (if applicable)

### 2. Initial Setup

1. **System Admin Creation**:
   - The system automatically creates a default system admin on first startup
   - Default credentials: `admin@lockerroom.com` / `admin123`
   - **⚠️ IMPORTANT**: Change the default password immediately in production
   - Or use the ensure-sysadmin script:
     ```bash
     DATABASE_URL="your-prod-db-url" npm run ensure-sysadmin
     ```

2. **Configure System Settings**:
   - Login as system admin
   - Navigate to System Configuration page
   - Configure:
     - **Branding**: Logo, company info, social links
     - **Appearance**: Theme colors, fonts, dark/light mode
     - **Payment**: Stripe keys, XEN Watch pricing, subscription pricing
     - **General Settings**: Platform-wide configuration

3. **Seed Demo Data** (Optional - for testing only):
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="your-prod-db-url" npm run seed
   ```
   **⚠️ Note**: Only use in development/staging. Never seed demo data in production.

### 3. Domain Configuration

#### DNS Setup

- **A Record**: Point to server IP (VPS)
- **CNAME**: Point to platform URL (Vercel, Railway, etc.)
- **Allow DNS Propagation** (up to 48 hours)

#### SSL Certificate

- **Automatic**: Most platforms handle SSL automatically
- **Manual**: Use Let's Encrypt for VPS deployments

## Monitoring & Maintenance

### Application Monitoring

#### Health Checks

Create a health endpoint:

```typescript
// server/routes.ts
app.get('/api/health', async (req, res) => {
  try {
    // Check database connection
    await db.select().from(users).limit(1);
    res.json({ status: 'healthy', database: 'connected' });
  } catch (error) {
    res.status(503).json({ status: 'unhealthy', error: error.message });
  }
});
```

#### Logging

- **Platform Logs**: Use built-in logging (Vercel, Railway, Render)
- **PM2 Logs**: `pm2 logs lockerroom` (VPS)
- **Application Logs**: Implement structured logging

```typescript
import winston from 'winston';

const logger = winston.createLogger({
  level: process.env.LOG_LEVEL || 'info',
  format: winston.format.json(),
  transports: [
    new winston.transports.File({ filename: 'error.log', level: 'error' }),
    new winston.transports.File({ filename: 'combined.log' })
  ]
});
```

### Database Backups

#### Automated Backups

**Neon/Supabase**: Automatic backups included

**Self-Hosted PostgreSQL**:
```bash
# Add to crontab
0 2 * * * pg_dump -U lockerroom lockerroom > /backups/lockerroom-$(date +\%Y\%m\%d).sql
```

**Railway/Render**: Use platform backup features

### Performance Monitoring

- **Uptime Monitoring**: Use services like UptimeRobot, Pingdom, or StatusCake
- **Error Tracking**: ✅ Sentry integrated (set `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable)
  - Automatic error capture and alerting
  - Performance monitoring with transaction tracing
  - User impact tracking
- **Analytics**: Set up application analytics (Google Analytics, Mixpanel, etc.)
- **Database Monitoring**: Monitor PostgreSQL performance (slow queries, connections)
- **Redis Monitoring**: Monitor cache hit rates and performance (if using Upstash)
- **Cloudinary Monitoring**: Monitor media bandwidth and storage usage

### Updates & Maintenance

1. **Pull Latest Changes**:
   ```bash
   git pull origin main
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

3. **Restart Application**:
   ```bash
   # VPS with PM2
   pm2 restart lockerroom
   
   # Most platforms auto-restart on deploy
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Database Connection Errors

```bash
# Verify connection string
psql $DATABASE_URL

# Check network connectivity
ping your-database-host

# Verify credentials
```

#### Application Won't Start

```bash
# Check logs
pm2 logs lockerroom  # VPS
# Or platform logs

# Verify environment variables
env | grep DATABASE_URL

# Check port availability
netstat -tulpn | grep 5174
```

#### Build Failures

```bash
# Clear cache
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install

# Check Node.js version
node --version  # Should be 18+

# Verify build script
npm run build
```

#### Performance Issues

- **Enable Compression**: ✅ Already configured in Express (compression middleware)
- **Database Indexing**: Review and add indexes for frequently queried fields
- **CDN for Static Assets**: ✅ Cloudinary CDN automatically used for all media
- **Caching**: ✅ Redis caching implemented (set `REDIS_URL` and `REDIS_TOKEN` environment variables)
  - 70-90% reduction in database queries
  - 85-95% faster API response times
  - Graceful fallback if Redis unavailable
- **Query Optimization**: Review slow queries in database logs
- **Connection Pooling**: Ensure proper database connection pooling
- **Media Optimization**: Cloudinary automatically optimizes images/videos

### Rollback Strategy

#### Vercel/Railway/Render

- **Deploy Previous Version**: Use platform rollback feature
- **Git Rollback**: Revert commit and redeploy

#### VPS

```bash
# Keep previous build
cp -r dist dist.backup

# Restore previous version
git checkout previous-commit-hash
npm install
npm run build
pm2 restart lockerroom
```

### Support Resources

- **Platform Documentation**: Refer to platform-specific docs
- **Application Logs**: Check logs for error messages
- **Database Logs**: Check PostgreSQL logs
- **GitHub Issues**: Search or create issue

## Security Checklist

- ✅ **HTTPS Enabled**: SSL/TLS certificates configured (automatic on most platforms)
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Not committed to repository (use `.env` files or platform secrets)
- ✅ **Secrets Rotation**: Regular secret updates (JWT_SECRET, SESSION_SECRET)
- ✅ **Database Security**: Secure credentials, network restrictions, SSL connections
- ✅ **Rate Limiting**: Configured on authentication endpoints (Redis-based for scalability)
- ✅ **CORS Configuration**: Properly configured for production domain only
- ✅ **Security Headers**: Helmet.js configured with comprehensive CSP
- ✅ **Input Validation**: Zod validation on all inputs
- ✅ **SQL Injection Protection**: Using Drizzle ORM with parameterized queries
- ✅ **XSS Protection**: React escaping and input sanitization middleware
- ✅ **Account Security**: Account freezing/deactivation system in place
- ✅ **JWT Security**: Token validation on every request with frozen account check
- ✅ **Password Security**: bcrypt hashing with secure salt rounds
- ✅ **Session Security**: Secure session storage with PostgreSQL backend
- ✅ **File Upload Security**: Cloudinary validation, file type/size restrictions
- ✅ **API Security**: Role-based access control (RBAC) on all protected endpoints

---

**Deployment Complete! 🚀**

For additional support, refer to platform-specific documentation or contact the development team.

Commit message:

docs: add Google OAuth integration and update documentation
- Add Google OAuth (Gmail sign-in/sign-up) feature
- Update README.md with Google OAuth features and setup
- Update DEPLOYMENT.md with Google OAuth configuration steps
- Update DEVELOPMENT.md with Google OAuth setup instructions
- Add comprehensive GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md guide
- Integrate Google Sign-In button in login and signup pages
- Add backend Google OAuth endpoint for token verification
- Update authentication flow to support Google OAuth users

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Deployment Guide - LockerRoom

This guide provides comprehensive instructions for deploying the LockerRoom platform to various hosting platforms and environments.

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Pre-Deployment Checklist](#pre-deployment-checklist)
- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
- [Database Setup](#database-setup)
- [Deployment Platforms](#deployment-platforms)
  - [Vercel](#vercel-recommended)
  - [Railway](#railway)
  - [Render](#render)
  - [DigitalOcean App Platform](#digitalocean-app-platform)
  - [Self-Hosted (VPS)](#self-hosted-vps)
- [Post-Deployment](#post-deployment)
- [Monitoring & Maintenance](#monitoring--maintenance)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Pre-Deployment Checklist

Before deploying, ensure you have:

- ✅ **Environment Variables** configured
- ✅ **Database** provisioned and migrations run
- ✅ **Cloudinary Account** set up with API credentials
- ✅ **Stripe Account** configured (if using XEN Watch payments)
- ✅ **Google OAuth** configured (optional, for Gmail sign-in) - See [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](./GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md)
- ✅ **Redis** configured (Upstash recommended) - Highly recommended for production
- ✅ **Sentry** account configured - Recommended for error monitoring
- ✅ **Domain Name** registered (optional)
- ✅ **SSL Certificate** configured (automated on most platforms)
- ✅ **Backup Strategy** for database

## Environment Variables

### Required Variables

```env
# Server Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=5174
CLIENT_ORIGIN=https://your-domain.com

# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:5432/database

# JWT Authentication
JWT_SECRET=your-very-secure-random-string-minimum-32-characters

# Cloudinary (Required for media uploads)
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloud-name
CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=your-api-key
CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your-api-secret

# Session Storage (Required for authentication)
SESSION_SECRET=your-session-secret-key
```

### Optional Variables (Highly Recommended for Production)

```env
# Redis Caching (Highly Recommended - improves performance significantly)
# Reduces database load by 70-90% and improves response times by 85-95%
REDIS_URL=https://your-redis-url.upstash.io
REDIS_TOKEN=your-redis-token

# Sentry Error Monitoring (Recommended for production)
# Provides real-time error tracking and performance monitoring
SENTRY_DSN=https://your-sentry-dsn@sentry.io/project-id

# Stripe (for XEN Watch payments and subscriptions)
# Required only if using payment features
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_your_stripe_secret_key
STRIPE_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_live_your_stripe_publishable_key
STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_your_webhook_secret

# Google OAuth (Optional - for Gmail sign-in/sign-up)
# See GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md for detailed setup instructions
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id.apps.googleusercontent.com
VITE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your-google-client-id.apps.googleusercontent.com
```

### Generating Secure Secrets

```bash
# Generate JWT Secret
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"

# Generate Session Secret
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

## Redis Setup (Highly Recommended for Production)

Redis caching significantly improves performance by reducing database load and enabling distributed rate limiting.

### Option 1: Upstash Redis (Recommended - Serverless)

1. **Create Account** at [upstash.com](https://upstash.com)
2. **Create Redis Database**
3. **Copy Connection Details**:
   - `REDIS_URL` - Your Redis REST URL
   - `REDIS_TOKEN` - Your Redis REST token
4. **Add to Environment Variables** in your deployment platform

**Benefits**:
- Serverless (pay-per-use)
- Global distribution
- Automatic scaling
- No server management

### Option 2: Platform-Managed Redis

**Railway**: Add Redis service from marketplace
**Render**: Add Redis service from dashboard
**DigitalOcean**: Create Managed Redis database

### Option 3: Skip Redis (Not Recommended)

The system will work without Redis but with:
- ❌ No caching (higher database load and costs)
- ❌ In-memory rate limiting only (doesn't work across multiple servers)
- ❌ Slower response times

## Database Setup

### Option 1: Neon (Recommended for Serverless)

1. **Create Account** at [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. **Create Project** and database
3. **Copy Connection String** to `DATABASE_URL`
4. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

### Option 2: Supabase

1. **Create Project** at [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. **Get Connection String** from Settings → Database
3. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="postgresql://..." npm run db:push
   ```

### Option 3: Railway PostgreSQL

1. **Create PostgreSQL Service** in Railway dashboard
2. **Copy Connection String** from Variables tab
3. **Optionally add Redis**: Create Redis service from Railway marketplace

### Option 4: Managed PostgreSQL

For platforms like **AWS RDS**, **Google Cloud SQL**, or **Azure Database**:

1. **Provision Database** instance
2. **Configure Network Security** (allow your app's IP)
3. **Create Database**:
   ```sql
   CREATE DATABASE lockerroom;
   ```
4. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="postgresql://..." npm run db:push
   ```

## Deployment Platforms

### Vercel (Recommended)

Vercel provides excellent support for full-stack applications with automatic deployments.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Install Vercel CLI**:
   ```bash
   npm i -g vercel
   ```

2. **Login to Vercel**:
   ```bash
   vercel login
   ```

3. **Create `vercel.json`** configuration:
   ```json
   {
     "version": 2,
     "builds": [
       {
         "src": "server/index.ts",
         "use": "@vercel/node"
       },
       {
         "src": "package.json",
         "use": "@vercel/static-build",
         "config": {
           "distDir": "dist/public"
         }
       }
     ],
     "routes": [
       {
         "src": "/api/(.*)",
         "dest": "server/index.ts"
       },
       {
         "src": "/(.*)",
         "dest": "dist/public/$1"
       }
     ],
     "env": {
       "NODE_ENV": "production"
     }
   }
   ```

4. **Deploy**:
   ```bash
   vercel --prod
   ```

5. **Set Environment Variables** in Vercel Dashboard:
   - Go to Project → Settings → Environment Variables
   - Add all required variables

6. **Configure Build Settings**:
   ```json
   {
     "buildCommand": "npm run build",
     "outputDirectory": "dist/public",
     "installCommand": "npm install"
   }
   ```

#### GitHub Integration

1. **Connect Repository** to Vercel
2. **Configure Auto-Deployments** on push to main branch
3. **Preview Deployments** for pull requests

### Railway

Railway provides seamless deployment with integrated PostgreSQL.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create Account** at [railway.app](https://railway.app)

2. **New Project** → Deploy from GitHub

3. **Add PostgreSQL Service**:
   - Click "+ New" → Database → PostgreSQL
   - Railway automatically creates `DATABASE_URL` variable

4. **Configure App Service**:
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Start Command**: `npm start`
   - **Healthcheck Path**: `/api/health`

5. **Set Environment Variables**:
   ```env
   NODE_ENV=production
   PORT=5174
   DATABASE_URL=${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}
   JWT_SECRET=your-jwt-secret
   CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=your-cloud-name
   CLOUDINARY_API_KEY=your-api-key
   CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=your-api-secret
   ```

6. **Deploy**: Railway automatically deploys on git push

### Render

Render provides straightforward deployment with managed services.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create Account** at [render.com](https://render.com)

2. **New Web Service** → Connect GitHub repository

3. **Configure Service**:
   - **Runtime**: Node
   - **Build Command**: `npm install && npm run build`
   - **Start Command**: `npm start`
   - **Environment**: Node 18+

4. **Add PostgreSQL Database**:
   - New → PostgreSQL
   - Render automatically provides `DATABASE_URL`

5. **Set Environment Variables**:
   Add all required variables in the Environment tab

6. **Deploy**: Render automatically deploys on git push

### DigitalOcean App Platform

DigitalOcean App Platform offers straightforward deployment.

#### Setup Steps

1. **Create App** in DigitalOcean dashboard

2. **Connect GitHub Repository**

3. **Configure Build**:
   - **Build Command**: `npm run build`
   - **Run Command**: `npm start`
   - **HTTP Port**: 5174

4. **Add Database**:
   - Components → Add Database → PostgreSQL
   - DigitalOcean auto-provisions and links

5. **Set Environment Variables**: Add all required variables

6. **Deploy**: App Platform handles deployments automatically

### Self-Hosted (VPS)

For complete control, deploy on a VPS (DigitalOcean Droplet, AWS EC2, etc.).

#### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 20.04+ or similar Linux distribution
- Node.js 18+ installed
- PostgreSQL 13+ installed
- Nginx for reverse proxy (recommended)
- PM2 for process management (recommended)

#### Setup Steps

1. **Server Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Update system
   sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
   
   # Install Node.js
   curl -fsSL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_18.x | sudo -E bash -
   sudo apt install -y nodejs
   
   # Install PostgreSQL
   sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib
   
   # Install Nginx
   sudo apt install -y nginx
   
   # Install PM2
   sudo npm install -g pm2
   ```

2. **Database Setup**:
   ```bash
   # Create PostgreSQL user and database
   sudo -u postgres psql
   ```
   ```sql
   CREATE USER lockerroom WITH PASSWORD 'secure-password';
   CREATE DATABASE lockerroom OWNER lockerroom;
   GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE lockerroom TO lockerroom;
   \q
   ```

3. **Deploy Application**:
   ```bash
   # Clone repository
   git clone https://github.com/Truthtechno/LockerRoom.git
   cd LockerRoom
   
   # Install dependencies
   npm install --production
   
   # Build application
   npm run build
   
   # Set environment variables
   nano .env  # Add all required variables
   ```

4. **Configure PM2**:
   ```bash
   # Start application with PM2
   pm2 start dist/index.js --name lockerroom
   
   # Save PM2 configuration
   pm2 save
   pm2 startup  # Follow instructions for systemd setup
   ```

5. **Configure Nginx**:
   ```nginx
   # /etc/nginx/sites-available/lockerroom
   server {
       listen 80;
       server_name your-domain.com;
       
       location / {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:5174;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
       }
   }
   ```

   ```bash
   # Enable site
   sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/lockerroom /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
   sudo nginx -t
   sudo systemctl reload nginx
   ```

6. **Setup SSL with Let's Encrypt**:
   ```bash
   sudo apt install certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
   ```

7. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

8. **Seed Database** (optional):
   ```bash
   npm run seed
   ```

## Post-Deployment

### 1. Verify Deployment

- ✅ **Health Check**: Visit `/api/health` endpoint (if implemented)
- ✅ **Database Connection**: Verify database connectivity
- ✅ **Authentication**: Test login functionality with demo accounts
- ✅ **Google OAuth**: Test Gmail sign-in/sign-up (if configured)
- ✅ **Media Uploads**: Test Cloudinary integration (upload image/video)
- ✅ **API Endpoints**: Test critical API routes
- ✅ **Redis Caching**: Verify Redis connection (if configured)
- ✅ **Sentry Integration**: Verify error tracking (if configured)
- ✅ **Notifications**: Test notification system
- ✅ **XEN Watch**: Test submission flow (if applicable)

### 2. Initial Setup

1. **System Admin Creation**:
   - The system automatically creates a default system admin on first startup
   - Default credentials: `admin@lockerroom.com` / `admin123`
   - **⚠️ IMPORTANT**: Change the default password immediately in production
   - Or use the ensure-sysadmin script:
     ```bash
     DATABASE_URL="your-prod-db-url" npm run ensure-sysadmin
     ```

2. **Configure Google OAuth** (Optional):
   - If using Google OAuth for Gmail sign-in:
     - Follow [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](./GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md) for setup
     - Add production domain to authorized JavaScript origins in Google Cloud Console
     - Add production domain to authorized redirect URIs
     - Publish your app in Google Cloud Console (see guide for details)
     - Set `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` and `VITE_GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` environment variables

3. **Configure System Settings**:
   - Login as system admin
   - Navigate to System Configuration page
   - Configure:
     - **Branding**: Logo, company info, social links
     - **Appearance**: Theme colors, fonts, dark/light mode
     - **Payment**: Stripe keys, XEN Watch pricing, subscription pricing
     - **General Settings**: Platform-wide configuration

4. **Seed Demo Data** (Optional - for testing only):
   ```bash
   DATABASE_URL="your-prod-db-url" npm run seed
   ```
   **⚠️ Note**: Only use in development/staging. Never seed demo data in production.

### 3. Domain Configuration

#### DNS Setup

- **A Record**: Point to server IP (VPS)
- **CNAME**: Point to platform URL (Vercel, Railway, etc.)
- **Allow DNS Propagation** (up to 48 hours)

#### SSL Certificate

- **Automatic**: Most platforms handle SSL automatically
- **Manual**: Use Let's Encrypt for VPS deployments

## Monitoring & Maintenance

### Application Monitoring

#### Health Checks

Create a health endpoint:

```typescript
// server/routes.ts
app.get('/api/health', async (req, res) => {
  try {
    // Check database connection
    await db.select().from(users).limit(1);
    res.json({ status: 'healthy', database: 'connected' });
  } catch (error) {
    res.status(503).json({ status: 'unhealthy', error: error.message });
  }
});
```

#### Logging

- **Platform Logs**: Use built-in logging (Vercel, Railway, Render)
- **PM2 Logs**: `pm2 logs lockerroom` (VPS)
- **Application Logs**: Implement structured logging

```typescript
import winston from 'winston';

const logger = winston.createLogger({
  level: process.env.LOG_LEVEL || 'info',
  format: winston.format.json(),
  transports: [
    new winston.transports.File({ filename: 'error.log', level: 'error' }),
    new winston.transports.File({ filename: 'combined.log' })
  ]
});
```

### Database Backups

#### Automated Backups

**Neon/Supabase**: Automatic backups included

**Self-Hosted PostgreSQL**:
```bash
# Add to crontab
0 2 * * * pg_dump -U lockerroom lockerroom > /backups/lockerroom-$(date +\%Y\%m\%d).sql
```

**Railway/Render**: Use platform backup features

### Performance Monitoring

- **Uptime Monitoring**: Use services like UptimeRobot, Pingdom, or StatusCake
- **Error Tracking**: ✅ Sentry integrated (set `SENTRY_DSN` environment variable)
  - Automatic error capture and alerting
  - Performance monitoring with transaction tracing
  - User impact tracking
- **Analytics**: Set up application analytics (Google Analytics, Mixpanel, etc.)
- **Database Monitoring**: Monitor PostgreSQL performance (slow queries, connections)
- **Redis Monitoring**: Monitor cache hit rates and performance (if using Upstash)
- **Cloudinary Monitoring**: Monitor media bandwidth and storage usage

### Updates & Maintenance

1. **Pull Latest Changes**:
   ```bash
   git pull origin main
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Run Migrations**:
   ```bash
   npm run db:push
   ```

3. **Restart Application**:
   ```bash
   # VPS with PM2
   pm2 restart lockerroom
   
   # Most platforms auto-restart on deploy
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### Database Connection Errors

```bash
# Verify connection string
psql $DATABASE_URL

# Check network connectivity
ping your-database-host

# Verify credentials
```

#### Application Won't Start

```bash
# Check logs
pm2 logs lockerroom  # VPS
# Or platform logs

# Verify environment variables
env | grep DATABASE_URL

# Check port availability
netstat -tulpn | grep 5174
```

#### Build Failures

```bash
# Clear cache
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm install

# Check Node.js version
node --version  # Should be 18+

# Verify build script
npm run build
```

#### Performance Issues

- **Enable Compression**: ✅ Already configured in Express (compression middleware)
- **Database Indexing**: Review and add indexes for frequently queried fields
- **CDN for Static Assets**: ✅ Cloudinary CDN automatically used for all media
- **Caching**: ✅ Redis caching implemented (set `REDIS_URL` and `REDIS_TOKEN` environment variables)
  - 70-90% reduction in database queries
  - 85-95% faster API response times
  - Graceful fallback if Redis unavailable
- **Query Optimization**: Review slow queries in database logs
- **Connection Pooling**: Ensure proper database connection pooling
- **Media Optimization**: Cloudinary automatically optimizes images/videos

### Rollback Strategy

#### Vercel/Railway/Render

- **Deploy Previous Version**: Use platform rollback feature
- **Git Rollback**: Revert commit and redeploy

#### VPS

```bash
# Keep previous build
cp -r dist dist.backup

# Restore previous version
git checkout previous-commit-hash
npm install
npm run build
pm2 restart lockerroom
```

### Support Resources

- **Platform Documentation**: Refer to platform-specific docs
- **Application Logs**: Check logs for error messages
- **Database Logs**: Check PostgreSQL logs
- **GitHub Issues**: Search or create issue

## Security Checklist

- ✅ **HTTPS Enabled**: SSL/TLS certificates configured (automatic on most platforms)
- ✅ **Environment Variables**: Not committed to repository (use `.env` files or platform secrets)
- ✅ **Secrets Rotation**: Regular secret updates (JWT_SECRET, SESSION_SECRET)
- ✅ **Database Security**: Secure credentials, network restrictions, SSL connections
- ✅ **Rate Limiting**: Configured on authentication endpoints (Redis-based for scalability)
- ✅ **CORS Configuration**: Properly configured for production domain only
- ✅ **Security Headers**: Helmet.js configured with comprehensive CSP
- ✅ **Input Validation**: Zod validation on all inputs
- ✅ **SQL Injection Protection**: Using Drizzle ORM with parameterized queries
- ✅ **XSS Protection**: React escaping and input sanitization middleware
- ✅ **Account Security**: Account freezing/deactivation system in place
- ✅ **JWT Security**: Token validation on every request with frozen account check
- ✅ **Password Security**: bcrypt hashing with secure salt rounds
- ✅ **Session Security**: Secure session storage with PostgreSQL backend
- ✅ **File Upload Security**: Cloudinary validation, file type/size restrictions
- ✅ **API Security**: Role-based access control (RBAC) on all protected endpoints

---

**Deployment Complete! 🚀**

For additional support, refer to platform-specific documentation or contact the development team.
